Hey guys will come back to the course so in this lecture we're going to talk about whether or not you
should direct your development efforts and your marketing efforts towards a specific Neech or whether
or not you should stand back and be more of a generalized development company.
So a lot of you guys who are coming from this from a graphic design perspective or have been freelancing
in the past probably know that one of the most effective ways of getting clients and establishing yourself
in the market is by picking a specialization or picking a niche and focusing pretty much all of your
efforts on that specific space.
So you know examples of knishes are lots of development firms will focus specifically on real estate
or specifically on medical technologies hospitals things like that or let's say government.
Those are verticals.
That's one way of being a specialist or picking a niche.
But also you can specialize in things like technology.
You can specialize in a specific technology a specific platform a specific framework you can be a development
firm that specializes in security only works with companies that need the highest level of security.
You could specialize in only working with banks.
There are a lot of different ways of doing it.
And a lot of other freelancers or freelance firms they like to specifically pick one area.
So this lecture and talk a little bit about the pros and cons of doing that and to help you understand
that you don't have to necessarily pick a nice you can also take a very generalized approach.
So here at Sprint Qik we don't actually have a specific niche.
We do have a group of people that makes up the core of our customers and that's entrepreneurs.
We specifically work with people who are in startups who are typically after their first round of funding
but usually before their third or fourth.
Now that was a group of people that we didn't necessarily target it just so happened that that group
of people is who we first gain traction with.
And so we kind of created our referral network around that group after a couple of years though we really
started to branch out and we started working with a lot of corporate accounts as well as a lot of government
accounts.
So for all intents and purposes we're pretty much generalized redo mobile applications.
We do web applications.
We do specific technologies we do specific languages.
We don't really care what vertical you're.
And we just noticed that we have a consistent poll from certain groups.
So when considering whether or not you should pick a very specific needs to go after there's a couple
of things you should consider.
1 Do you have a strong network somewhere or do you have strong affiliation somewhere.
If you are an ex real estate agent you might want to go after real estate companies because it's a natural
transfer.
You could naturally talk to those clients understand what they want and understand what they expect.
So in that case that might give you a start.
Now if you don't have any natural affiliations like you don't can't think of a group of people that
you just naturally fit into at least a group of people that's very distinctive then there might be harder
for you to pick a niche since you don't have something that you have a personal connection to.
Now of course you don't necessarily need an affiliation to pick a niche.
You can just pick one arbitrarily something you think would be competitive.
So you think that would give you good margins something that you think that you could access easily
in terms of marketing and advertising.
But typically if you have some sort of connection to the group that's going to make it a lot easier.
Now another thing you should ask yourself is there specifically some kind of technology or some type
of group that you're passionate about working with.
Now previous to starting a development business you probably didn't think to yourself that the way that
you're going to work with this technology or this group of people was by giving them development services
but now that you are starting a development firm it seems like that might actually be a more natural
fit.
So let's take an example if you're someone who's really passionate about web security maybe it makes
sense for you to build something around web security.
Let's say you're passionate about Bitcoin.
Lots of things that are popping up in bitcoin.
If that's the case then it might be such that you should start building applications or building your
marketing efforts around things that have to do with bitcoin in general things that you're passionate
about are going to make this a lot easier.
Now later we're going to talk about advertising strategies that are helpful if you have some basic domain
experience things like white papers things like guest blogs things like that are much much easier if
you actually yourself are really interested in the space that you're going after.
The last thing I'd ask you is how familiar are you with web technologies if you're someone who is brand
new this you're not exactly really well acquainted with what's popular what's not popular What are people
use what's considered good X what's considered bad you X and this is not something you deal have dealt
with previously on a daily basis.
Then I almost would suggest you look into finding a niche.
Typically when you're operating in a niche it's much easier for you to get business within that group.
The barrier for someone giving you money and accepting a project proposal from you is just going to
be lower.
I'll take an example.
The real estate example if you only focused on real estate companies or brokers or whatever it is the
barrier for your web site your web presence your web proposals it's much much lower because people are
instinctively going to trust you because they assume are expert in that space.
That's why we use knishes in general.
I kind of hate to say it but if you want to go after a niche that's typically a good idea if you're
not particularly confident in your ability to make a SNAZZY well-polished professional application if
you don't own a ton of experience in picking a Nishi is typically a good idea.
Now reasons why you would not want to pick a niche are pretty much the opposite of what I just outlined.
If you don't have some really strong passionate pull towards some specific topic area or technology
try more generalized approach.
If you don't have really strong affiliations to one group of people that are your immediate network
they're going to reach out to the first stage of launching this.
Then I would suggest going for a generalized approach the pros to being generalized or that you it's
much easier for you to receive interest from other people if you made a website that only specifically
went after real estate or Bitcoin.
Anybody who comes to your Web site hears about you is interested in your services but has nothing to
do with that.
Nisha that specific area of expertise they're going to be strongly deterred from contacting you or working
with you.
So if you take a generalized approach you're more likely to capture a wider range of interest.
And then after you've completed some projects on your own you've gone from found a client got the client
signed the proposal created the application deploy the application the clients happy.
After you've done a couple times you'll have a lot more information about whether or not you want to
specialize in an area or if you have a natural area that just works for you and that will help direct
your marketing efforts.
So nice or not it's really up to you if you have strong affiliation strong passions about a specific
area or if you have strong domain expertise in a specific area picking a niche might be for you if you
also are not particularly Web savvy or it's not really something you have a lot of expertise in.
And your confidence in your ability to create a really high quality polished product something that
you see on a startup's Web site or something you would see unlike like the Webby Awards then picking
an issue might be easier because the barrier to getting sales is much lower.
Now on the other hand if none of those things actually apply to you you might pick a generalized approach
because generalized approaches are much easier in the beginning because you're more likely to capture
interest for a wider variety of people.
Then after that you can figure out which direction you want to go in.
In my opinion either one works.
It depends on you making your efforts in this business aligned with you and who you are as a person
are going to make it all so much easier it's going to make you a lot more successful.
All right guys.
Any questions.
In the group scutcheon.
Otherwise shoot me a private message.
All right see the next lecture.